Hi my name is Nikolai and I'll be taking you through credit risk modeling in Python.
I hold a PHC in business and economics and have a rich background in risk modeling and marketing analytics.
My professional journey started with six years in research going through be a Norwegian Business School the University of Texas at Austin and HCC Paris.
Throughout the years I've worked on numerous projects that involve building highly accurate quantitative models and solutions.
I've also worked on a consulting basis at financial institutions and helped them tremendously improve their credit risk models.
Now I'm extremely happy to share everything I've learned in my theoretical training and practical experience.
So what can you expect from this course.
It is going to be packed with knowledge covering some of the most exciting methods I've used.
That's why I like to call it the most comprehensive introductory credit risk modeling course in python on out there.
I am super excited and I hope you are too because this will be a great journey.
First we'll start with the very basics.
We'll learn about what credit risk is why it is important and how financial institutions actually measure it.
This will also be our first and last truly theoretical section before we dive into coding in Python.
Then we'll take all the scientific steps in going through the dataset and determining the relevant predictors.
Once this is done we'll get our hands dirty with some pre processing.
You'll apply general pretty processing methods consisting of cleaning the data dealing with missing values and looking into different techniques used for discrete and continuous data since there will be dozens of variables.
You won't just watch how the operations are performed.
Instead you'll work on homework assignments where you'll have the opportunity to practice everything you've seen.
Now credit risk is a sensitive topic and it is truly important for the financial health of creditors.
Therefore we'll spend plenty of time looking into the best practices out there in predicting the probability of default.
While there are resources online which show probability of default models here we will actually abide by the regulator rules established in Basel 2 and Basel 3.
This means that everything will be shown exactly as it is performed by quants in banks.
Awesome right.
Step by step we'll take advantage of techniques like fine classing coarse classing weight of evidence and information value
 will not only learn them but perfect them
 because I believe their use is one of the most important determinants of the success of your model.
All of these will be fundamental both for your risk modeling preparation and your overall data science skill set.
Once we have our data set up we start modeling 
we'll create three different models a PD or probability of default model showing the probability of a customer not repaying their debt 
and LGD or loss given default model showing the proportion of an exposure a company loses when a customer defaults
 and an ead or exposure at default model showing the total loss in terms of amount of money the bank is exposed to If a customer defaults 
with this information we'll create a score card.
The score cards you create are identical to the ones bank officers use on a daily basis to accept or reject loan applications.
Finally we'll combine these three models to calculate the total expected loss for the whole portfolio of loans that the bank holds 
the expected loss or E.L. is a key strategic metric for bank management.
Thus the output of our work will be paramount for all work levels at the bank.
Sounds great doesn't it.
Well that's not all 
credit risk models need adjustments from time to time 
so we'll also learn how to maintain credit risk models and how to deploy them for direct use.
Once you've completed all lectures and exercises you'll have acquired tons of new skills which you'll then apply to your own major project at the end of the course.
You'll have the opportunity to build a complete credit risk model from scratch thus implementing everything you've learned 
I believe this is going to be an awesome adventure 
to get the most out of this course please don't skip any lectures as will gradually build on your knowledge.
This means the concept you'll learn the first part of the course will be more than useful later on.
What else.
The lessons in this course contains several downloadable resources to help you reinforce what you've learned.
Course notes exercise files PDL materials handy notebook files everything is included and can be downloaded easily.
I strongly suggest you complete all the exercises as they are designed not only for practice but also as an additional source of information that deepens your understanding of statistics.
All things considered this course is extraordinary on its own but on top of that those of you the complete 50 percent of the course will receive a gift from us.
Our private tableau training 
just post on the course Q and A section saying you have completed 50 percent of the course and we will send you a link to the tableau training.
And don't hesitate to posting Q and A.
If you experience some difficulties have a question to ask or simply want to share something with the community.
I hope you're as excited as I am.
Dive straight in and let's begin this journey together.
