It is normal for lenders to incur credit losses from every portfolio or exposure over a given period of time.
In other words lenders know that there is a certain amount of credit risk associated with every borrower.
They expect that there could be a loss when lending to any borrower 
Such expected loss comes at a result of different types of factors :
borrower specific factors ,the economic environment ,and the combination of the two.
In addition lenders may also incur unexpected losses.
These are most likely results of adverse economic circumstances that affect the whole economic environment.
It is highly unlikely but still possible that lenders suffer exceptional losses for example due to a severe economic downturn 
In this class we will focus on the ways to estimate expected loss which is associated with credit risk.
These are also called expected credit losses 
On exposure level expected loss is the amount a lender might lose by lending to a borrower.
There may be many different approaches to estimate and forecasts that amount.
But the established credit risk modeling framework defines expected loss as the product of three components
probability of default loss given default and exposure at default.
Lenders build different statistical models to estimate each of these components and then multiply them to obtain the expected loss for a given exposure level.
Let's take a closer look at the three components 
probability of default or PD is the likelihood that a borrower would not be able or would not be willing to repay their debt in full or on time.
In other words it is an estimate of the likelihood that the borrower would default.
Usually PD refers to a particular time horizon 
loss given default or LGD is the share of an asset that is lost if a borrower defaults.
It is the proportion of the total exposure that cannot be recovered by the lender once a default has occurred 
exposure at default or EAD is the total value that a lender is exposed to when a borrower defaults 
therefore it is the maximum that a bank may lose when a borrower defaults on a loan
 let me show you a simple example of how expected loss is being calculated.
Let's assume that a borrower wants to buy a house for five hundred thousand dollars.
The lender that is the bank funds 80 percent of the purchase.
This proportion is often referred to as loan to value so we can say that loan to value is 80 percent.
The loan amount is equal to 80 percent of five hundred thousand dollars.
That is four hundred thousand dollars.
By now the borrower has repaid forty thousand dollars so the outstanding balance is three hundred and sixty thousand dollars.
If the borrower defaults the exposure a default would therefore be three hundred and sixty thousand dollars.
Assume that there is empirical evidence that 1 in 4 home owners have defaulted in previous years.
So probability of default equals one divided by 4 which is 25 percent.
If the borrower defaults the bank can sell the house immediately for three hundred forty two thousand dollars 
meaning it can recover three hundred forty two thousand dollars 
then the remaining loss would be eighteen thousand dollars and loss given default would be eighteen thousand dollars divided by three hundred and sixty thousand dollars equaling 5 percent
 if the bank had to calculate its expected loss for that exposure in this very moment.
It would be as follows 
PD multiplied by LG D multiplied by ead
This equals 25 percent multiplied by 5 percent multiplied by three hundred and sixty thousand dollars or forty five hundred dollars.
Thanks for watching.

