Different facility types and credit risk modeling approaches.
All right.
Great, in our previous lesson we saw how under the standardized approach particular types of borrowers and products are being treated in a different manner in terms of capital requirement calculations.
I believe we are making excellent progress.
For instance we saw on one hand that the equivalent of 20 percent of the exposure towards every company rated from Triple A to AA minus has to be held as capital
 50 percent of the exposure towards every company rated from A plus to A minus has to be held as capital and so on.
On the other hand for retail exposures of individuals banks have to hold as much as 75 percent of capital of each exposure 
and for mortgages as much capital as 35 percent of each exposure.
As you can see there are different approaches and rates to calculate capital requirement depending on what the borrower is a company or a corporation, another financial institution or a country 
the calculations also differ by product types also called facility types even if the borrowers are of the same type 
for example both retail loans and mortgages are given to individuals but retail exposures have a 75 percent weight and mortgages have a 35 percent rate 
similarly the internal ratings based IRP approaches may use different methods and statistical models for different types of borrowers and facility types.
This is largely due to differences in number of data points available for different types of borrowers and facility types.
The estimation of statistical models requires data and the more the data the better.
However in an economy there are fewer firms than individuals that means fewer company exposures compared to retail exposures.
Therefore using traditional statistical instruments such as multiple regression models is easier for retail portfolios and may be difficult for portfolios of corporate clients 
usually the fewer the data points for a borrower type and facility type The more the bank relies on a qualitative judgment and aggregated external information such as external agency ratings for estimating credit risk.
This is also the case if the bank has started a new facility type recently and does not have enough
customers or historical data to track defaults and builds statistical models.
For example usually there could be very few large corporate clients and among them even fewer defaults.
In this case the risk modellers may turn to credit experts from the large corporate division and ask them to provide their judgment on credit worthiness of each client on a more fine grained credit risk scale.
In such situations risk modelers may try to build a simple model to calibrate all the data they have based on the grades received from credit experts.
While the segment of large corporations typically requires using approaches that involve a heavier reliance on qualitative judgment and simple calculations the segment of small and middle enterprises abbreviated SME usually contains sufficient number of clients to build statistical models using established methodologies
for mortgages consumer loans and credit cards It gets even better in terms of data availability 
in this course we are going to focus on the general case where enough data are available for implementing a traditional and established statistical methodology to build credit risk models.
For now let us just mention that it is established to model PD using binomial logistic regression.
Also it is established a model LG D and EAD with a beta regression which represents a regression with a beta distributed dependent variable 
as an example we are going for using one of the most typical retail products consumer loans 
in terms of modelling it doesn't matter much what the facility type is because the statistical methodology is the same.
However it is important to point out that the information we may have varies for different borrower types and facilities 
First, for individuals we may have any demographic and socio demographic information such as biological sex age education marital status income address zip code and so on.
In addition we may have data supplied by external agencies such as external credit ratings a number of recent inquiries for credit.
Another piece of information we will certainly have are the characteristics of the product that a customer is applying for
 for fixed term consumer loans the length of the product's lifespan is an important variable.
Other important product variables may be the interest rate and the purpose of the loan.
Credit cards don't have a fixed term but have a credit limit.
People are spending up to that limit and the proportion spent called credit limit utilization is an important piece of information banks can use to predict defaults 
for mortgage loans a very important characteristic is the loan to value ratio.
The proportion of the value to the property that is funded by the loan 
the information banks work with when assessing corporate loans is quite different
 when performing this activity banks may look at a firm's size how long it has been operating for which is its industry and the target market is focused on.
Banks may also look at the company's financial statements and calculate ratios such as return on assets the ratio of net income to total assets return to equity the ratio of net income to shareholders equity Current Ratio current assets to current liabilities which shows the company's ability to pay short term debts and debt ratio Total liabilities to total assets 
a lot of these variables are available at the moment of application while many of them can be obtained after a loan is granted and the behavior of the borrower has been observed for a sufficiently long period of time 
the former set of variables can be used to build application models and both the former and the latter set of variables can be used in the so-called behavioral models
application models are used to estimate a firm's credit rating at the moment of application.
The estimated credit ratings in turn are the basis on which banks decide whether to grant a loan or not.
A bank may also use the estimated credit ratings to decide how to price the loan That is what interest rates are charged for the respective loan.
This is known as risk based pricing.
The riskier a loan is the higher will be its price the higher the interest rate charged to the customer
behavioral models on the other hand are used to calculate probability of default and respectively expected loss after a loan is granted.
Banks may also use behavioral models to decide whether to grant an additional loan to an existing customer.
For example let's say a credit card holder applies for a mortgage.
In this case the bank would use a behavioral model to estimate the credit rating of the applicant because it would take into consideration both their application and behavioral characteristics 
for non statistically savvy users for example Many credit agents and front office workers the statistical models for estimating credit risk are being presented in a simplified way as score cards
 a score card is in fact a probability of default model.
The score card represents the coefficients from the PD model in a simplified way as scores 
depending on whether the model has application only or both application and behavioral characteristics The score card is called application or behavioral scorecard.
All right 
so our goal in this course is to learn how to build statistical models for estimating expected loss.
We are going to build a probability default model using a binomial logistic regression.
Then we are going to build a loss given default and an exposure a default model using beta regressions
we could build these models using many statistical software packages such as SPSS SAS and R
 here We chose to use a statistical computing environment which is widely used his growing popularity and has the tendency to become the most popular amongst data scientists; Python
 in the next section we are going to familiarize ourselves with the Python programming environments and will install the applications we need to start building statistical models for estimating expected loss.
See you there.
And thanks for watching.

